veganism isn't a diet it's a lifestyle
choice yo what's up I've talked a lot
lately about tolerance as a fundamental
virtue in politics that you can't really
get much of anything done without deeply
understanding tolerance how to cooperate
with others with people who have serious
moral differences from yourself and
there's a terrible lack of tolerance
within the vegan demi-monde these days
the purpose of this video really is just
a shout out to vegan youtubers who have
very very few viewers because they're
they're new on the scene I mean when I
discovered these two channels I think
they had like 10 views each on most of
their videos and that's natural when you
first come onto YouTube nobody knows you
except your friends and family you know
a couple people you know in real life
and when you're a vegan one of the
reasons you get on the Internet is that
you don't already know a lot of vegans
in real life you don't already have a
network of 500 vegans who know you
face-to-face so naturally it can be slow
and difficult for you to find your
audience for your audience to find you
so one of the reasons I'm making this
video is just to you know promote these
channels basically and say hey what's up
and you know some of my own viewers will
like what they've got to offer but also
as I've been preaching tolerance so much
lately I mean look the point is not that
I agree with these people about
everything the point is not even that I
agree with them about anything but I can
still see some value in what they're
doing and I can appreciate what they're
contributing to these debates and you
know to what I hope is the beginning of
a movement the very first steps of a
social movement that's going to change
the world profoundly in the next 100
years
however laughable it might seem in 2016
now we're talking about selfish reasons
it's the same if people subscribe to
freelee the banana girl and vegan gains
and durianrider and all these other
begins that people think are really
attractive and their lifestyle is
wonderful and oh look they're traveling
to Thailand and they're going to fruit
festival and liqueur all those Instagram
photos it's just like so wonderful and I
want to be a part of that so
hashtag vegan that's not long term
veganism
that is something that people are
attracted to because of the way it looks
it's Instagram being a veganism and
that's not the future really is that if
you are young and single and you're
traveling around and meeting vegans and
eating all these wonderful foods and
documentary in it you can on YouTube and
and doing what I eat videos and what I
eat photos that's not real thinkin ISM
that's not long-lasting you know why is
because it's all for you know to be
looked at but the thing is plant-based
lifestyle goes for a long time because
it's about people's bodies the images of
animal torture can fade but you know it
doesn't fade your image in front of the
mirror so this woman is completely
fascinating to me her approach to
veganism is so profoundly alien to mine
and you know she identifies as religious
conservative she's a member of the
Mormon faith and I gotta tell you I
really find it thrilling because my
whole life I'm surrounded by left-wing
people I never meet conservatives they
exist I know the Conservative Party gets
a lot of votes so there must be
conservatives around here but it's it's
totally tantalizing for me to see the
world through this woman's eyes instead
on her YouTube channel and of course you
know she's a vegan and talking about
vegan ethics and her whole approach to
the question of ethics and everything
else is is so profoundly different from
mine that as I say it's thrilling I mean
what a nice change from the the BS I I
heard somebody talks already and now the
first half of what she said in this this
quotation I just played you of course I
agree with strongly appeals of me
profoundly where she's saying look
Instagram veganism is not long-lasting
you know it that's that's you know this
kind of lifestyle because Instagram
veganism is not long-lasting but of
course what's fascinating is she's
actually the next step of our argument
is that she's also arguing that ethical
veganism is not long-lasting she is
actually arguing that a a health
centered approach to veganism is what
will really get people motivated
involved you know again I've been
talking with a virtue of tolerance there
will be many many issues that I would
disagree with her about politely but I
would tolerate her and if we were
actually members of the same social
movement or political organization that
would be a really interesting dance
because I would actually you know be
around someone I believe you know she's
against having legal access to abortion
she's made videos on those topics she is
against pornography she you know she has
sort of some traditional hardline
conservative views I don't want to
misrepresent her you can see her YouTube
channel etc so she's a vegan but has a
very different you know perception of
life on Earth from someone like myself
or from anyone I ever meet alright let's
let us speak a little bit more before I
comment further just remember guys that
there's nothing wrong with selfish
speaking news home animals are a
wonderful thing to do to be concerned
about and when your plant-based you are
also at the same time even if it's
unconsciously you are lessening the
consumption and the and the slaughtering
of animals and so if you want to be as
effective and share the message you have
to offer to people what they want
according to their needs the world will
never see epical veganism as mainstream
as long as hatred and and discrimination
against against me eaters is wrought
upon them because you think they're your
support superior to them because you
live in a lifestyle that is so much
better for the earth and so much better
for the animals and therefore you're
better than them whoo okay look I mean
full disclosure I'm I'm sprung this is
her view of veganism is totally
different from mine but I mean wow I'd
be I'd be willing to fake it I'm
watching this video and I'm thinking you
know what maybe maybe converting to
Mormonism wouldn't be that bad as I say
look it's great for me to really see
these profoundly different approaches
what she says here is is almost 180
degrees opposite to me although again I
sympathize and this is someone you know
obviously I wouldn't just tolerate
somebody like this I'd be really happy
to be cooperating in the same same
movement with people with these these
very different approaches very different
values
but she is problematizing the ego trip
that I myself have talked about on this
channel in the past of vegans believing
that they're superior to non vegans but
again if we're really being honest and
we're looking at history there's no
doubt that type of ego trip certainly is
part of the ugly side of the caste
system in India it's part of the long
history of vegetarianism in both India
and China and if we use China as a less
prejudicial example yeah you're damn
right there are people and if we get in
medieval China but still in modern China
there are people who believe they are
superior because they practice a
vegetarian diet and that's partly for
supernatural reasons and partly for
ethical reasons and what-have-you they
take pride in that and reciprocal with
that pride no doubt is a type of
sneering contempt for their co-workers
or their colleagues who instead are
eating dead pigs on a daily basis so I
see that as inevitable I see that as
problematic but I think if we're really
being honest with ourselves and looking
at history what lessons we're gonna draw
from that and how we're gonna cope with
that as a movement I think is much more
nuanced and never to reason why ethical
veganism is not really effective is that
even though people go vegan for ethical
reasons which is very good because we
don't because vegans don't contribute to
the consumption as meat a meat is that
people may not have understanding of
nutrition and a whole rounded diet Wow
so there are so many interesting facets
to this from my perspective she is
pointing out that you know one of the
weaknesses of the health based approach
is that it you know you have to promise
outcomes you know you can't actually
promise people that if they go vegan
they won't have a heart attack
some vegans have heart attacks yes
there's a lower rate of them etc you
can't promise people that if they go
vegan they won't get cancer you know you
can be vegan but you live in a city with
terrible air pollution and you get lung
cancer you know it it does the
scientific research indicates that it
helps to be vegan there were health
benefits to being vegan but this is not
really a simple case
where you can deliver on those kinds of
promises so she's aware of that she's
aware of that weakness but she still
seems totally firm in her conviction
that it's the it's the health based
approach it's what you can see in the
mirror as she says that's going to
motivate people to become vegan and
remain vegan the long term now I do
disagree with her and what's fascinating
to me is as a religious conservative she
herself is someone whose whole life is
shaped by ethical commitments and the
people around her you know her husband
her family and so on she expects them to
live lives that are strongly motivated
by ethics and ethical commitments so to
use one issue that she talked about her
channel she is morally opposed to
pornography so she's asking people to
never look at pornography for ethical
reasons there's not a health reason it's
not you know there are none of these
other issues there that's a straight
case of ethics and she obviously
believes that people can live their
whole lives can live for decades or
something refusing pornography for these
ethical grounds so you know why is it
then that when she turns her attention
to veganism where she obviously does
have a very meaningful ethical
engagement with if you watch more of her
videos you'll see she talks about
hunting she talks with many ethical
elements and she obviously has a real
real engagement with the ethics also but
she feels the the ethics are a weak
argument now again maybe my difference
from her it is the the awareness of
other religions and other examples I
mean in the history of India with a much
weaker footing than veganism has today
you have both vegetarian and semi vegan
groups you know Hinduism and Jainism
that were able to sustain themselves not
just for centuries but for millennia
from definitely more than 2,000 years
these religions motivated people to
maintain vegetarianism or sometimes
closer to veganism as a kind of personal
ethical identity as something that
defined you and defined your bloodline
to find your grandparents and to find
your grandchildren
that those dietary restrictions and
those ethical principles should be
things you practice with real pride and
it worked and they didn't have any
health arguments um you know they didn't
know about the rates of cancer or
anything else medieval India ancient
India
so again partly my view is actually
shaped by ethics and religion although
different religions
I'm a former scholar of tera vaada
Buddhism of the Pali language of
Southeast Asian languages of history of
Asia in general so I've seen tremendous
longevity and tremendous durability
actually an impure ly ethical approaches
to these same issues and you know so
it's interesting for me to imagine she
only sees weakness in that predominantly
ethical approach and is say if we're
being honest about it there's also an
element of pride there right there's not
just not just being ethical
but being publicly ethical being proud
of those ethics of saying I am
vegetarian or I am vegan this matters to
me this is part of who I am and I'm
proud that my parents were vegan or and
I'm proud that my children or
grandchildren vegan it's very easy to
see that you know the politics of
identity he is wrapped into that and I
would go so far as to say that these
impulses overlap she talks about the
difference between seeing footage of
animals in a slaughterhouse and what you
see in the mirror
but once veganism becomes part of your
identity ethically once ethical then you
see that in the mirror you know the same
way that someone in India is proud of
being a Brahmin is proud of their caste
status and sees that as part of their
identity and they remain vegetarian for
that reason in the same sense I think
that veganism as an ethical principle
becomes part of your identity it does
become part of what you see in the
mirror because you take some pride in it
so this is a very stimulating for me to
see these contrasting views from from
other vegans with such different
political values but I presume in in her
condemnation here I mean she's taking a
much more unilateral approach of saying
look any sense of superiority vegans
feel over non vegans is bad and evil
well that's that's obviously that
resonates much more with a Christian
sense of humility and Meo well humility
can be useful up to a point
- but I do think that you know taking
pride in that identity the same way
she's talking positively about taking
pride in health and fitness I don't
think that's totally misplaced any any
kind of ego trip is dangerous any kind
of ego trip and get out of control but
again so for me this just fundamentally
raises a whole lot of issues that I
think are really worth thinking about
veganism isn't a diet it's a lifestyle
choice the words we choose carry such
great significance so there's one word
that's kind of floating around - the
vegan movement and it's the word
lifestyle and it's usually used in the
sense that veganism isn't a diet it's a
lifestyle choice
it isn't a lifestyle choice I mean but I
imagine lifestyle I don't imagine it
Marxism and I don't imagine feminism you
know I picture rock climbing kale salad
and yoga and all those things are great
don't get me wrong about trying to bash
on anyone's hobbies but lifestyle just
does not carry the same weight as
political ideology which is what
veganism is all right so this is of
self-evident integers to me and you know
she makes a very simple strong point
here this is a brand new youtuber called
the tofu goddess why do so many people
cling to this idea of lifestyle as
opposed to using a stronger phrase like
political ideology obviously it's
because some people would be terrified
of the implications of really thinking
about veganism as a political ideology
as she just said herself they would they
would be they would be terrified to
think of it as something equivalent to
Marxism it's not without reason but
people find that scary and I think when
you look into it even deeper in some
ways what's going on in veganism is more
like caste identity in the history of
India
you know vegans do want to get married
to other vegans vegans want to raise
vegan kids so that's even deeper than
Marxism because you know all kinds of
Marxists don't force their kids to be
Marxists and don't have to marry a
Marxist they don't form a separate
social class to quite that extent
now some do some take it that far but
with veganism it's true in some ways
this is as serious as any political
ideology and in some ways it's even more
serious and that's why you get people
discussing to what extent is it like a
religion or to what extent is it like a
cult and those are really important
questions I mean so my contribution here
in just these five seconds is to say
well one reason why people want to
instead promote it as a lifestyle is to
avoid asking themselves those hard
questions because if it's a lifestyle we
get to kind of go off to Dreamland and
not worry about those things in their
implications now the other big reasons
that you've heard me talk about on this
channel before are of course you know
money
Fame I was reading recently some
comments from a young woman who's
promoting veganism on YouTube in this
lifestyle way the weight loss the
permanent vacation that's etc and she
was absolutely thrilled that she was now
earning four hundred dollars a month
allegedly from her YouTube channel
believe me for a lot of people that is
going to shape what you say and how you
say it that's going to shape your
message profoundly so if you can make
$400 a month selling a lifestyle selling
a weight loss I mean if you can make 35
dollars per book selling a diet ebook
that's gonna convince a lot of people to
package this as a lifestyle and not as a
political ideology and let's keep it all
the way real if you were to package
veganism much more like Marxism do you
think you could make $35 a book selling
a book about that do you think you could
get this kind of again fame money power
respects preaching by the internet so
those are the shallower questions but
they are also significant ones that
shape both what we're really doing and
how we're perceived in what we're doing
here in digital the digital sphere of
vegan activism so look guys I hope you
enjoyed this peculiar podcast and I hope
I've introduced you to two new vegan
channels that you probably haven't heard
of before and all you guys if you love
me if you know what if you like what I'm
doing if you have some interesting point
two disagreement with me where you want
to debate something I said you guys who
have your own YouTube channels you know
shout it out man live your truth put it
up online there's so much that's worth
knowing about worth learning about worth
sharing you know there's so much that we
have to contribute let's not be tearing
each other down over who's wearing too
much makeup
who can benchpress more weight or you
know shallow nonsense
we're definitely in just the first baby
steps of you know a social and political
movement that I hope is going to change
the world in the next 100 years we're
looking back on and happened
learn from the last 100 years when if
we're honest vegetarianism did not make
a goddamn thing happen in this world you
know during the last 100 years we've
seen the triumph of animal agriculture
the expansion of factory farming on a
scale that's baffling and impossible to
imagine globally even within India even
within China even within Sri Lanka even
within Thailand all the Buddhist
countries got on the bandwagon along
with the you know America and Europe in
adopting factory farming that's been the
history of the last hundred years
looking at it the next 200 years we've
got a lot to think about a lot of tough
questions to ask ourselves a lot of
problems to identify and then you know
we got to roll up our sleeves and make
something happen